#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass scrbook
\use_default_options true
\master 00_CyTeX_Manual_main_document.lyx
\begin_modules
theorems-std
theorems-chap
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
CAN Communication with SAE J1939
\end_layout

\begin_layout Exercise
CAN Frame Decoding
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Capture a CAN Frame using an oscilloscpope on a J1939 network and decode
 it according to SAE J1939.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Exercise
Read Live Engine RPM Challenge
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using a BeagleBone Black and a Truck Cape, connect to an engine contoller
 that is broadcasting non-zero engine RPM.
 Gather this data using candump.
 Interpret the raw CAN frames and extract information for Engine RPM, or
 J1939 SPN 190.
 Plot 20 seconds of changing RPM with matplotlib.
 Print the properly labeled plot to PDF and show it to your instructor.
 Objectives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Learn how to interface with Linux SocketCAN and can-utils Be able to look
 up a signal definition in the J1939 Digital Annex (spreadsheet) Use grep
 to search for specific strings from a candump Have a reliable CAN datalogger
 for use in future projects Plot data using matplotlib in Python.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Suggested Materials
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This exercise can be run with any Linux device with CAN hardware.
 An example of a commercial product with these features is the DG Technologies'
 Beacon device.
 An example of a hand built project is the BeagleBone Black with a TU TruckCape.
 Resources
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
J1939DA Internet Access (you may want to share your PC's connection sharing)
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Exercise
Man in the Middle
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Build a man-in-the middle board and box that takes CAN signals into one
 can channel and sends them out on another.
 Start a diagnostics session with a PC and RP1210 device to perform maintenance.
 Create a forwarding system that inspects and forwards network traffic in
 both directions.
 Attempt to hijack a a diagnostic session and affect a parameter change
 started with the PC diagnostics software.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using DDEC Reports, try to prevent resetting the CPC clock during a data
 extraction on a CPC.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
