#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass scrbook
\use_default_options true
\master 00_CyTeX_Manual_main_document.lyx
\begin_modules
theorems-std
theorems-chap
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Princples of Cybersecurity
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Fundamentals of Automotive Security
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We now step into the realms of cybersecurity in a more detailed manner.
 Automotive security is a relatively nascent field whose academic origins
 can be traced back to early days of the ESCAR (
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

https://www.escar.info/history/escar-europe/escar-europe-2003-lectures-and-program
-committee.html
\end_layout

\end_inset

 ) security conference.
 The thoeries proposed by the early academics were soon realized and the
 first car hack papers were published back to back in the years 2010 (Koscher,
 Karl, et al.
 "Experimental security analysis of a modern automobile." 2010 IEEE Symposium
 on Security and Privacy.
 IEEE, 2010.) and 2011 (Checkoway, Stephen, et al.
 "Comprehensive experimental analyses of automotive attack surfaces." USENIX
 Security Symposium.
 Vol.
 4.
 2011.).
 The first of these papers demonstrated that a attacker with physical access
 to a vehicle can easily observe and manipulate the vehicles states while
 the second demonstrated more than technique via which a remote attacker
 to gain physical access.
 While these revelations were shocking, a wider and stronger impact was
 made by three BlackHat/DEFCON presentations (
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MAcHkASmXEc
\end_layout

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OobLb1McxnI
\end_layout

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n70hIu9lcYo
\end_layout

\end_inset

) and the corresponding Wired article ( 
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

https://www.wired.com/2015/07/hackers-remotely-kill-jeep-highway/
\end_layout

\end_inset

 ).
 Anybody wondoer why Greenday sells more than The Clash in today's internet
 era? Moving on, this section will use the content of the above mentioned
 papers/presentations to lay a foundation for the upcoming chapters and
 creating an understanding for the general principles of cyber-security.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction to Cryptography
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Message Authentication
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Encryption on CAN
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
